For this update, we're going to focus on our all-important disciple-making work.
Despite the pandemic, the governing body continues to look for ways to make our ministry even more effective.
How? By continuing to build on the direction provided at the 2017 annual meeting.
At that meeting, the governing body announced organizational adjustments based on 1st Corinthians 926.
That verse says, therefore, the way I am running is not aimlessly, the way I am aiming my blows is so as
not to be striking the ear. How do we make our blows count?
We focus on what Acts 1348 mentions, searching for those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life.
How have we been helped to do that? Consider a few examples from the past year.
We reviewed Watchtower study articles that focused on helping new ones progress to baptism,
and that reminded us to discontinue unproductive studies.
The 2020 regional convention program devoted an entire day to the disciple-making work
and to helping Bible students progress to baptism.
Who could forget Nita and Jade?
Our November campaign included a special effort to provide government officials with information
about God's kingdom with the goal of reaching even more rightly disposed ones.
And aren't we excited to use the new Bible study tool and joy life forever,
which features a more effective teaching style? But 2020 saw another significant effort
to make our blows count in June 2020. It was announced that all branches would evaluate their
foreign language and indigenous language, pregroups, groups, and congregations.
What was the reason for this evaluation? Notice what the governing body conveyed to the elders
at that time. In recent years, Jehovah's people have responded to the call to expand their
ministry by learning another language in order to reach honest-hearted ones and publishers
should be commended for their self-sacrificing efforts in this regard. Nevertheless,
it has been noted that in some cases, pregroups or groups show little evidence of growth,
with few progressive Bible studies and few, if any, progressing to baptism.
In harmony with 1 Corinthians 9.26, the governing body wants to be certain
that we are making our blows count. How were these language groups and congregations evaluated?
Notice what happened in the first century when Paul and his companions wanted to expand
their ministry. Acts 16, 6-10 explains that they traveled many miles and made concerted
efforts to preach in various territories. However, Jehovah, through his Holy Spirit,
directed them to the right area. Let's read this at Acts 16, 9. And during the night,
a vision appeared to Paul. A Macedonian man was standing there urging him and saying,
step over into Macedonia and help us. How did they respond? Verse 10 says,
as soon as he had seen the vision, we tried to go into Macedonia, drawing in the conclusion that
God had summoned us to declare the good news to them. When they discerned Jehovah's direction,
the brothers immediately followed the leading of the Holy Spirit. Likewise,
we followed the Spirit's lead. Of course, it's not provided through visions, but through evidence
in the field. The recent evaluation showed that some foreign language and indigenous language
groups and congregations had existed for years and yet had few or no publishers who were dependent
on the language. In other cases, the territory was very scattered, so publishers and pioneers
had to travel long distances to find someone who could speak the language. Despite all of this
effort, there were a few Bible studies and few interested ones if any who attended meetings.
What was Jehovah's Spirit telling us? It would be better to use our efforts in other fields.
Thus, such pregroups and congregations were dissolved. Have you been personally impacted
by this evaluation? If so, you're not alone. For example, as a result of the evaluation in just
16 branch territories, some $4,700, 2,800 ministerial servants and 11,000 regular pioneers have
been made available to serve in other fields. At one time, we may have thought that the
largest increase was taking place in foreign language or indigenous language fields,
but as we've considered the matter more carefully, it seems that congregations in the
main languages of many countries are experiencing the largest numbers of newly baptized disciples.
So, if you're now returning to a congregation in one of the main languages of your country,
remember that you are needed there. Many congregations are struggling to cover their
large territories. In major cities, there may be millions of people to reach, but few publishers
and pioneers available to preach. Many pioneers and publishers are finding progressive return
visits and Bible studies in these fields. And think of how the congregations are being strengthened
as so many mature ones joined them. More appointed brothers are now available to help with
shepherding, to deliver meeting parts, and to assist in many other ways.
What practical blessings are resulting from this evaluation?
Let's hear the thoughts of a few branch committee members.
Thanks to the wise direction of the governing body, the way we accomplish our ministry has
improved. More publishers, qualified pioneers and appointed brothers will be able to help rapidly
other congregations and concentrate their efforts in the most productive language fields
or fields with a greater potential. This evaluation has allowed us to assign
graduates from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers and special pioneers as well
to more productive territories. But what we're hearing is that this is energized the
ministry of these pioneers. In fact, many of them are conducting progressive Bible studies now.
None of us find adjustments easy, so it's been so encouraging to see how many have been
willing to adapt to these changes in fact embracing them. In one language field, some brothers
were a little hesitant at first, but they were loyal, so of course they went along with the changes.
Now the circuit overseer tells us that these ones have sent so many expressions of appreciation
thanking them for these loving adjustments. Many learners have informed us that it has
greatly reduced their stress level. This has allowed them now to be in a congregation that
they can concentrate more on a productive ministry and take care of their own spirituality as well.
There's one brother who is learning another language, and he was in a congregation and this
change from being a congregation to a group, and he said it's as if finally someone has just released
the pressure valve. If you read up truly, our branch committee saw Jehovah's spirit act and
is convinced he blessed this evaluation. What about our pioneers and publishers?
Let's hear from some who have experienced these adjustments first hand.
In the congregation where I'm serving now in Portuguese, the territory is very productive.
People are so receptive. I had the goal of starting one Bible study when I was in the foreign
language group. When the adjustment came, in just a few weeks, I had five studies.
We would drive around for hours looking for just a few specific individuals. Now we just
preach to people, and if we find foreign language speakers, we can still preach to them too.
I have more joy in my ministry because I feel like I'm making good use of my time.
Well we love being in foreign language, but realistically it takes a lot of time, so we've really
enjoyed having more time to prepare for our meeting parts, discuss the points in our application.
It's been a really nice blessing. I personally have really benefited from having the extra time
just to spend on cultivating my relationship with Jehovah.
I really, really interesting is what one brother said from another group. He said,
okay, now I think I understand better the way that Jehovah does math. So instead of having 15
people learn a language to help one person, now just one person needs to learn a language to be
able to benefit from entire congregation. A hundred brothers or more.
The first concern that I think we all had was for those who depended on the language
that as it's turned out and as they've become part of the congregation,
how they have any bigger family and brothers and sisters to care about them.
So in our small congregation, the attendance to the memorial was usually just the publishers.
Now being in this new congregation is very exciting because this year we had almost double the
amount of the publishers in our congregation for the attendance this year. So that's very encouraging
to see. We feel that now we are putting our time and energy in a territory that is actually
productive. And like for so Corinthians chapter 9 verse 26 says, we feel like we are making our
blows count. If you're in the same situation as these publishers, what will you do now?
Like Paul, we need to be willing to redirect our efforts based on the leadings of God's spirit.
Learning another language may be one way that we can expand our ministry, but it's not the only way.
Where is the greatest need for preachers? Where is their evidence of growth?
It might be in the field of your primary language.
For practical advice on where your efforts and abilities are most needed,
speak to your circuit over here or write to your local branch office.
Jehovah's organization is on the move and it will not be stopped by the pandemic or anything else.
Will this recent adjustment in priorities lead to even greater increases?
Perhaps it's too soon to say, but we're receiving positive reports.
One branch reported that they've had 10 consecutive peaks in the number of publishers
and another branch said that the number of new regular pioneers and new Bible studies
is growing at a pace never seen before. The governing body has every confidence
that Jehovah will strengthen each of you so that we can truly make our blows count.
We love all of you very much. From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is J. W. Broadcasting.